Now, what outfit were you with in the Corps of
Cadets? I was with the infantry.
What did you think about the hazing at A&M? The
what? Hazing.
Oh,
from old timers, I'd learned to expect that when I
got down there.
I
thought it was a kind of a foolish prankster type
sort of thing that didn't contribute a goddamn
thing to anything.
On the other side of things,
I got involved in it also. Why?
Well, I guess it's
one of these things where you allow
bad habits
or evil things to overcome sound judgment.
And that happens to you. Like drowning out
someone, you know. I don't know whether you know
what that is. I never beat anybody with a paddle,
but here's a guy trying to sleep and you go throw a
bucket of water on him. Why do you do that? Well, had
he done that to you, I don't know who it was, but
you'd think it was him.
What does that contribution mean? Absolutely
zero.
Or you have a bag full of water
and somebody walks along and you drop it on his head
from up on the roof. I guess I can best say it's
immaturity. It's the sort of thing that happened
with all children.
And you're still children when you do that. You're
not a man. Men don't do those things to each other.
Isn't that right? Men do not do those things to each
other. It's only children that does that.
And children are immature. Did you learn anything
from it? Absolutely nothing.
Nothing.
Is that one of the things that you disliked about
the Corps? No, I really didn't dislike this, but it
made no contribution. Well, what did you like and
dislike about the Corps of Cadets? What I liked
about the Corps of Cadets is I think the most
fascinating thing in the world for a man is to see
one guy out as a leader and everybody else is
studying there to replace him when he goes. And the
preciseness, the discipline involved. That's
what it's all about. Learning to do things well.
And doing things well. And doing it in such a
fashion that other people see it and say, oh my God,
aren't they great. Aren't they good? Look how they
dress. Look how he stands. Look at his clothing.
Look at his whole posture.
Discipline. That's what it's all about. That's
how you become a successful chairman of the board
or president of United Technology or Martin
Marietta Corporation or Sears and Roebuck or
anything else. And that is one thing this country
has the least of, and that's leadership.
I used to stand on the platform at West Point and
teach psychology of leadership, and I used to say,
all
you fellows are going to be leaders.
I was wrong about that. Only one or two out of a
hundred are going to be leaders.
You say leaders are made, not born. I can't totally
subscribe to that. I can't totally subscribe to
all leaders are made and not born. Because you look
into what I see as a leader it is a
leader has to have a
personality
he has to have a mannerism he has to have a posture he
has to have a mind he has to have a heart and a soul and
he has to have principles of fair play and justice
unselfish unbending relentless belief in
principles and a burning desire to continue to
learn and you put all of that combination together
and stand up then in front of a group of men of
which they're all different from you and they're
individuals and then you be able to communicate
with them in such a fashion that they all
understand exactly what it is you want done and
then they go do it That's leadership.
Now, you start looking at all those things, I have
nothing to do with my personality. I have nothing
to do with my physical posture. I have nothing to do
with my physical makeup at all, the size of my feet,
my hands, my nose, my face. I have nothing to do with
that.
I have nothing to do with with, to a large degree, a
mannerism. The way I talk,
the way I use my hands, the way I walk, and that's a
motivating thing, an emotional thing,
emotional. It has nothing to do with that. I do have
a lot of things to do with the learning, to detect,
to represent principles, to build my own
techniques, my own personal techniques which
apply the principles based on my personality,
statue, and the things that I had nothing to do
with.
can foster adventure.
I can accept the inborn principle of challenge.
I can work like the devil to get rid of my selfish
I think inborn characteristics.
And
I can continue to discipline myself, which is
study. You see, discipline is so vital to
everything. Absolutely,
no question about it. Absolutely exactness. See,
discipline is learning to do things well,
learning to do things so well that they become
habitual and automatic those good principles you
never have to think about them okay you never have
to think about those things and they become
habitual and automatic you've learned them so
well and you believe them so well then your mind is
free to meet the ever-changing situations that
happen about you that god only knows about that's
going to happen And you're prepared. Then you are
prepared.
You see? For example, you teach a soldier to
fire his rifle.
And he knows all there is to know about that rifle.
Then as he unexpectedly, or he may expect it,
receives fire from the enemy, he doesn't have to go
back and say, well, now, I wonder how I load this
rifle I've got here because that guy's going to
kill me here. How do I load this thing? Or what did
that sergeant say about how you... move this lever
or that lever to make it shoot. Well, he's dead.
That's
a visual automatic. It's like teaching a soldier.
You say there's a little roll in the terrain out
here. Now, you receive fire from out here on the
battlefield. The first thing you do is you take
cover. Cover? Yeah. Cover in the mind of a soldier
is cover from the fire. Get behind something or
down low so that that fire won't hit you. Then you
try to conceal yourself from the enemy.
Concealment is trying to protect yourself so he
can't see you while you move to go after him. Well,
if you haven't learned those principles so well,
you're going to be dead. So life's not going to be
very long, isn't it? So this is what I'm talking
about. Squads right, squads east, squads left,
whatever you want to call it, right and left,
forward march, always step on your left foot, this
on the fourth, and this same movement. Now you said
that one of the things that you liked about the
Corps was the leadership possibility. Were you a
leader in the Corps? Did you have an opportunity? I
was a squad leader in my company. I was a best drill
cadet in my company.
I was a sergeant.
I was a platoon sergeant. I was a captain on the
battalion staff. and those were positions of
leadership. Now, you said that one of the things
that you liked was the discipline. Were there
other things that you liked about the Corps?
Well, I liked the military subjects that they had.
There were practical subjects, life-saving
subjects.
So you thought you got good instruction? Oh, I got
fantastic. The best instruction I had was from
those sergeants who had been in the military for
15, 20 years, and from the officers, and from what
you get, not in the class, but from what you get from
looking at the individual as an officer. Those
fellows were immaculate. Those models. They're
models. And they were immaculate. And that's just
an inspiration. There wasn't any non-military
professors there that wore Art Schaffner mark
suits and all
that sort of stuff. And their shoes were shined and
their hair immaculate and that sort of stuff. You
only see that in the military. That's where you
expect it. That's what America expects, and
that's what they deserve because it is different
from the civilian life. Were there any things
about the Corps that you disliked?
We were an all-white school at that time.
And I suspect that if there had been black students
at A&M, I don't know whether they had been able to be
in the Corps or not. I don't know. I'm just
speculating now. I don't know. But
I had nothing but admiration and respect for the
military curriculum. The way it was conducted I
thought was by the ultimate of professionals and
I guess that there is some harassment there about
maybe
you worked for an hour and a half shining a buckle or
something for us, and then for somebody to come by
and say, well, you've got a dirty buckle there, you
know, you don't go for that sort of stuff. But that
was immaturity sort of stuff amongst the people.
Now, in what way do you think that the Corps helped
your career? Well, it provided a way of life for me.
Sort of gave you the foundation of what the
military would be like? Absolutely. Absolutely.
No question about it. Absolutely. I, uh,
no question about that. Were there any ways in
which you think that being a member of the Corps of
Cadets might have hurt your career in the long run?
No, I do not think so. It was only helpful, only
helpful.
And I think that is brought out by my following 36
years in the military.
Let's now talk about the quality of the product of
Texas A&M, the second lieutenant. uh tell me what
what do you think are his strengths and weaknesses
and perhaps you'd like to compare it with those of
the west point second lieutenant
I think that most people will probably disagree
with my comparisons and my method of comparing,
but I think you get just as few military leaders,
true leaders that go on to be general officers, I
think you get just as few true leaders out of West
Point as you get out of Texas A&M. Because you're
second lieutenant that doesn't mean that you're a
real leader. You're
called a platoon leader if you like with 40 men but
let's look at it this way. Second lieutenant out of
A&M or out of Citadel or out of VMI or out of the Air
Force Academy or the Naval Academy or the Military
Academy are the least experienced officers in the
service, aren't they? Okay. And what are their
responsibilities in the case of the Army? We'll
stick to the Army.
Who do they lead if they're going to lead? They lead
the least experienced soldiers in the Army. So
really what we're talking about here is the least
experienced officer leading the least
experienced enlisted men,
which is a platoon of 25 to 40 people.
Now,
this young officer ends up with an awesome
responsibility.
And I want to tell you straight forward there isn't
much leading going on.
And how can you expect the least experienced
officer in the Army to lead the least experienced
people in the Army? How is he going to lead them?
Hell, he's been in the academic route for four
years. He's had us. just a smattering of military
and now here he is.
He needs a lot of help from the senior fellows with
five or six years service in order for him and from
the senior NCOs. I guess what I'm saying is that
he's just beginning When he graduated from A&M as a
second lieutenant or West Point as a second A&M,
he's now prepared to go out and learn something
about what this is all about. And that's the reason
why the attrition rate is so low at the Air Academy
and Naval Academy and the Military Academy and
amongst the regulars that leave Texas A&M. The
attrition rate is maybe 40-50% at the end of 10
years. Why? Well, they can't hack it.
They can't do it. They don't like it. They're in the
wrong business.
Here's what General Abrams said to the Congress of
the United States, and this is a matter of record,
and I guess it's in about the 1973 congressional
record.
He said out of 100,000 officers,
we are looking for four or five, only four or five
out of 100,000
that we can put at the right place at the right time
to influence the action and win the battle or the
war. He says, as was the case in Guadalcanal, as was
the case at An Loc in Vietnam. And I'm the guy he's
talking about there.
So, if you can just get that number. This goes back
to what I said, the least thing we have
in our society is leadership. Do you think that
there's a higher probability that those four or
five will come from Texas A&M or West Point? Which
school or does the ROTC program or the academy, do
they have a higher probability? They complement
each other. They complement each other very much
because At West Point, it's pure science and
engineering, hard
engineering sciences and that sort of thing.
Well, at Texas A&M,
you may end up with a fellow that's a liberal arts
student or a history student. They're very vital
to complementing the West Point in our society
because these officers become public servants to
serve 221 million people right today and we've got
a
lot in order to serve those people you've got to
come from a cross section of those people
to serve the for the military today, for the Army to
fulfill its responsibilities to 221 million
people,
it's got to have an officer corps that represents
all of those people.
You've got to have English majors, history,
all the specific engineerings,
textile, the whole gamut. So, do you get that from
West Point? No. Now, where is that, but where is the
rest of this supposed to come from? It's got to come
from ROTC. That's why ROTC is so important to the
military.
And you put that together, and these guys then
start to school. ROTC graduates, West Point
graduates, all start school and they continue to
school throughout their entire career. Serving
at the cabinet level, become Secretary of State,
become President of the United States, and all
these positions. Well, those that do that are
those who have enriched themselves from all walks
of life brought in by your officer corps. So that's
an important part of the ROTC officer coming in
with the Army, Navy, and the Air Force academy
graduates. Now there's probably a higher
percentage of senior officers in the military
that are from the academies than from the ROTC
programs. Probably there is now. Is there I have
heard from some quarters that there's some sort of
a club and that the military academy people will
promote their own faster than they'll promote
ROTC or Texas Aggies and I was wondering if you'd
respond to that. Is there sort of a, is there that
feeling or is that just about hogwash? That's all
hogwash and that comes from people who
haven't met the standards. Or they've seen
somebody been promoted over their head and they
say, oh, he's from West Point or he's from the Air
Academy or he's from the Naval Academy. That's all
hogwash. As I say, I've been an instructor at West
Point. And the treatment that I received up there
was absolutely phenomenal from the standpoint of
me being there. And I've been treated the same
throughout my entire life with the military. I've
been promoted ahead of my contemporaries in most
every instance of which were West Pointers. So I'd
say that's a bunch of hogwash. So it's a question of
the quality. It's a question of quality, you see.
Right now the chairman and joint chief is an OCS
graduate General Vesey from Minnesota, and a
personal friend of mine. He was vice chief of staff
of the Army before he moved up a few days ago, but Mr.
Reagan. This is the first time in some time that the
ROTC, General Wyant, who was the Chief of Staff
before the present Chief of Staff. He was ROTC at
California.
I
think that from the standpoint of your selection
procedures for general officers are such that It
really doesn't make any difference whether you
came up through the ranks as a private or whether
you graduated from West Point or whether you
graduated from Texas A&M, VMI, or the Citadel. It
doesn't make any difference because that cannot
impact on what you've done. And that's what you're
being promoted on and what you've done and your
potential. So you think that most of the people who
but for such an idea are just sour grapes. Oh,
absolutely. No question about it. No question
about it. Now I want to ask you about something else
that's a little bit more controversial, and this
is an idea often suggested by the press, that
there's some sort of a military mentality. You've
probably heard of that term, a military
mentality, a military way to do it, which is much
different than a civilian way to do it. Is there a
military mentality, and if so, would you find it?
No, I've found no military mentality. I think
that, again,
we're looking for balance in the military and the
ROTC product and the soldier off the street
product coming up through the ranks. disavow any
militaristic approach to things. Too many of us
have served at the cabinet level. Too many have
been involved in things like trying to get
two-track education systems in high school. Can
you imagine? I sat for four years as a Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense for personnel,
manpower and personnel. My God, I was involved in
programs that impact on our whole civilian way of
life. So you can't serve at those levels and say
they're just a militaristic viewpoint. How would
you like to get involved in trying to save Chrysler
Corporation back in 1953, 54, when they were about
to go down the damn tube then? I tell you, the thing I
think that most people resent about the military
is that there is a discipline there.
There is principles laid out on what you want to do,
and there is an application of these principles in
a precise manner. which should produce the best
approach to getting something done. And all this
is is orderliness. Orderliness. And I think there
is an orderly manner of going about getting things
done and the press call this a militaristic
approach because this orderliness is uncommon to
civilian way of doing business. That's exactly it
as I see it. That's exactly it. Okay, now when you
finished up at Texas A&M, did you have pretty firm
ideas about what you wanted to do? Did you want to go
in the military at that time? Did you want a
civilian job? Can you continue the story? I worked
for a little while. as a civilian, uh, waiting for,
uh, my, uh, diploma before I went to the military.
And, uh, uh, no, it was never any desire to, uh, I
could have gone to work for Hughes, too,
uh, but, in Houston. But I, uh, I, uh, wanted to go to
the military. And, uh, Some of the chaps that
graduated ahead of me were second lieutenants
down at Fort Sam Houston in the 2nd Infantry
Division, and they had invited me down there on the
weekend while I was cadet. And at Fort Crockett in
Galveston,
they had a coast artillery regiment down there,
and I had been invited down there.
I just was totally impressed with this. And
another thing that I had learned, and that was that
there was a guy named Adolf Hitler that
was playing havoc with things in Western Europe.
And since I've That coat of arms goes back to 12th
century in England,
English and German extraction.
I
said in my judgment, I didn't have much judgment,
But I was no different from anybody else that just
graduated from college. Because judgment comes
from experience and acceptance of
responsibility. Until you've done that, you
know. He thought that maybe Hitler was... Oh, I
knew he had to. He was going to be running all over
the place, and I didn't know where the end was going
to be, and I figured that I might as well get in there
and learn all I can before I have to go. before I, you
know, it would have given me a better break in
leading the young men. So you joined in 1940. Yeah,
I was a second lieutenant. Received my
commission, and I went straight away. And so you
were immediately assigned to the 2nd Armored
Division? At Fort Benning, Georgia. Okay, and
what was your job there? I was a platoon leader.
Okay. Yeah. And then my education started. Okay,
let's talk about that. My education at that time,
this was July 1940, I was the only second
lieutenant in a battalion,
in a tank battalion, the third battalion of the
68th
Armored Regiment Light.
And there were five other officers.
One was a battalion commander who was a major.
I guess there were four other officers. And three
company commanders who were first lieutenants.
That was all the officers there were. Normally you
have about 40 officers in there, but that's all. I
was the only non-West Pointer. I was a second
lieutenant.
And I said, well, I gotta, the major, the battalion
commander, he told me, he said, now, in addition to
you being platoon leader, I want you to be aid to
Colonel
George S. Patton at the division headquarters
when you go on field maneuvers. I want you to work
with him, and I want you to be my exec, and I want you
to be my supply officer, and I want you to be my
personnel officer, and then my operations
officer here in the battalion headquarters. At
the meantime, you're going down to I Company, and I
want you to learn all there is to running a company.
Ms. Hollingsworth had graduated, just graduated
from Texas A&M, I mean from TWU, and so we lived off
post. War was coming at Columbia, Columbus,
South, Columbus, Georgia, Columbus, Georgia.
She didn't see very much of me except maybe few
hours on Sunday because I had about five sergeants
who probably in experience for exceeded the
capabilities of our PhDs today. They were PhDs in
the art of soldiering because they all had about 15
years of eighteen year service. First Sergeant
Latham, First Sergeant Latham had about eighteen
year service. He was the first sergeant and the top
sergeant and then there was Sergeant Bardinelli,
he was a mess sergeant and you used to have a mess
account where you got so much money and he had to
manage that. I had to learn to manage that. He
bought the food. You got some issue food but he
bought food. for these hundred and twenty-five
men in the company. Then there was Supply Sergeant
Murphy in response for all the supplies for that
company. Then there was Sergeant Heiss who was a
maintenance sergeant for the seventeen tanks,
four motorcycles,
three-quarter ton truck and one two-and-a-half
ton truck and a mess truck. And then there was a
favorite platoon sergeant of mine named
Stanford, Sergeant Stanford. He was a tactician.
So I went to school. I set an objective for myself,
which was to drain those guys dry. Stanford was the
junior of the lot. He only had about 14 years
service.
My objective was to absorb
each of those fellows Total years of experience.
And that was a hell of an undertaking. But I felt I
had to have that.
So I called them in my later years the five great
professors of my life. Because they made me
successful. You see? I have to accept the fact that
I was successful whether I'm blowing my own horn or
not but they are responsible
as far as I'm concerned for me learning the real art
of the trade and my father provided me and my mother
with what's necessary, with how to take that art
and apply it. That's how plain and simple it is.
What were some of the tips that they gave you? Well,
first place, they insisted that I learn all there
was about each of those things, even the cooking.
The first sergeant taught me that if a platoon of
twenty-five men do something wrong don't punish
the whole platoon punish or ferried out and
correct the one single one responsible
because all five of the tanks went in the wrong
direction. Don't call all the crews down and
reprimand them for that. Find out who it was that
somebody there to respond to that. That's right.
That was very important early. There was a
continuation of this business of doing
everything right. In keeping a record, I'd say
Sergeant Major, or Sergeant Murphy, Why did you do
this? Why did you put a mark here? Why are you
required to use the same colored ink? Well, you're
required to use the same black ink on this and red
ink over here for a simple reason. We're talking
about deficits and we're talking about credits.
You're required to have so many tent pegs in this
company and this is very important because if you
don't, some guy when you go out here the in the woods
and the wind is blowing and raining at night one
tent peg is not there means that that one's going to
blow away he said do you understand that i said why
why you got why don't you what are you doing you got
all of you got all the flashlights stacked over
here on one side and and you've got all the
batteries stacked over here, and Colonel Patton
just raised hell yesterday about us preparing for
war, and we're not preparing for war. If you've got
flashlights over here and things over here, and we
have to go to war in the morning, now we've got to put
those together. And somebody's liable to come in
here and forget the, got the flashlights and
forget the batteries. Well, and he goes, through
about the maintenance of this equipment and why
you don't want a battery to go bad in a flashlight
and destroy the flashlight and all that sort of
stuff. Then in the maintenance,
you learn to time the tank engines. You learn to
help take them out. You learn all there is to know
about it. Sergeant Heiss said to me, he said, if you
don't learn all this, How do you know wherever you
go from here and whatever units you have, how do you
know whether or not that sergeant is snowing you or
not about what's going on? I said, I never thought
about that, Sergeant Hines. Will a sergeant do
that? He said, sergeants are people.
And people are all different, he told me. I
thought. You're telling me something that I told
my father when I was ten years old.
So these men taught you the practical trade?
Absolutely, absolutely, no question about it.
How long were you in Georgia? I was there a year and a
while, then I was sent off to to an automotive
course at Fort Knox, which was the only schooling I
had after I left Texas A&M until after the war. And
what did they try to teach you at the automotive
course? To move large armored formations like the
Second Armored Division with 300 plus tanks,